											Ian Gottwik
											12/6/23
				7-1 Final Project
	The various roles on my Scrum-agile team each had their own important and unique role that specifically contributed to the success of the SNHU Travel Project. The three roles used in a Scrum-agile 
team is the product owner, scrum master, and the development team which can comprise of any number of developers. The product owner’s most important job is too understand the requirements from the business
and the customers which they use too create and direct the products backlog which defines those requirements that the customer and business is looking for which is essential too creating the best possible 
product. The biggest benefit of an agile team is its versatility, flexibility, and its responsiveness which the product owner is in charge of making sure that these teams are delivering the most value while
using its benefits too the maximum. Another thing that the product owner needs too understand the value of the scrum process so that they can maximize the teams efficiency while balancing the needs of the 
customers and businesses. It is a very important task too use all the inputs given too the product owner and manage them while solving conflicting priorities and maximizing the effectiveness of the development
team. The product owner is the one who sets priorities and makes some of the largest decisions in the scrum process and that is why its crucial for the one and only product owner too make these decisions
too prevent a variety of problems. 
	The scrum master is another piece of the puzzle and it is responsible for managing the scrum process and ensuring that it is being used too its fullest potential. The scrum master will help the product 
owner define their needs for this product and they will convey this too the development team while making sure they deliver on these needs. The scrum master is also in charge of improving the development
teams use of scrum and its efficiency towards creating a great product. Another important thing the Scrum master is in charge of is creating transparency, when creating any sort of product within a team 
transparency is crucial for communicating effectively and sharing ideas. Another important aspect the scrum master is in charge of is using the previous cycles too plan and learn from, which is a huge part 
of the scrum process since they push out test products within a short amount of time which they use too learn from too improve upon on the product. The development team is the people who create and test the 
product using the information that is given too them by the product owner. The scrum master will take lead of the development team so that they are maximizing the scrum process too its fullest potential which 
is essential in creating the best possible product for the customers and business. The development team is responsible for creating the work within the time frames given on the backlog and ensuring that there 
is transparency in the communication so they can fully understand what is expected of them. These 3 pieces of the puzzle were all important in the success of any project and within the SNHU travel project.
	The scrum-agile approach to the SDLC helped the user stories come too completion because it gathers the requirements and analyzes them, and helps design, develop and test the project too its conclusion
while maintain maintenance on the product and keeping it up to date with customer feedback. The scrum-agile approach supported project completion when the project was interrupted and changed direction due 
to the interruptions and changes in directions are too create a better product and give the customers what they want. As you push out test models every week for a customer too give feedback on you learn from
what you done and the customer is able too realize what they actually want and further their own feedback so that the product can improve even more through the next cycle using this feedback. The scrum-agile 
approach is made too experience interruptions and direction changes but they are not a negative thing, they only bring positive consequences for the project because the product owner is in charge of these 
interruptions and all the decisions they make are for the better of the product. In the SNHU travel project, the week after putting out a test SNHU travel website we got feedback which gave us the information 
that we needed too change our direction in our product because one thing I never included but customers were extremely interested in were detox/wellness vacations, and without customer feedback, I would have
never thought of including that in the SNHU travel site. The ability too communicate effectively with your team is crucial too any project and within the SNHU travel project communication was done through the
slides which is an amazing way too communicate because I am able too reread anyone statements so that I can fully understand what they want and are saying. The product owner who is trying to tell us what the 
customers are looking for and what they want us too improve is important because without this communication we would have no idea what we need too improve and what the customers want from our product in the
future. The organizational tools and scrum-agile principles that helped our team be successful is pushing out the test product at the end of the week and using the customers feedback from that test product 
too improve the product in the next work cycle too create a better product. Without this principle in scrum-agile work method the whole method would fall apart because it is crucial and why we have a scrum 
master too make sure we are performing scrum too its upmost utilization. The pros of a scrum-agile approach is the customer feedback because this is crucial for creating the best possible product since the
customer is the ones who are paying or using the product, if they do not like the product they have no reason to use it which means we just waisted all our time and effort creating a product that the 
business and customers do not want to use. I believe that the scrum-agile approach is the best approach for the SNHU travel project but any project where your creating a product because the customer 
feedback that the agile approach uses is crucial and the best aspect about this method because the customer is the one who is gonna use and pay for the product.








Resources:
Atlassian. (n.d.). Agile Scrum roles. https://www.atlassian.com/agile/scrum/roles 
